---
title: Contact Us
keywords: contact
toc: true
permalink: about_contact.html
folder: about
sidebar: home_sidebar
comments: false
---


## Mailing Lists

### Announcements

The perfSONAR project maintains a low-volume mailing list used for
announcements related to software updates and vulnerabilities at
[perfsonar-announce@internet2.edu](mailto:perfsonar-announce@internet2.edu).

To sign up for this mailing list, please visit
[https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-announce](https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-announce).

To view the list archives, please visit
[https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/arc/perfsonar-announce](https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/arc/perfsonar-announce).

{% include note.html content="Posting to this list is restricted to the perfSONAR development team." %}


### User Discussion

The perfSONAR project maintains a mailing list for discussion of
installation, configuration, bug reports, or general performance
discussions at
[perfsonar-user@internet2.edu](mailto:perfsonar-user@internet2.edu)

To sign up for this mailing list, please visit
[https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-user](https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/subscribe/perfsonar-user).

To view the list archives, please visit
[https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/arc/perfsonar-user](https://lists.internet2.edu/sympa/arc/perfsonar-user).

{% include note.html content="Posting to this list is restricted to subscribers.  The list is moderated manually, so if you wish to be a regular contributor, please sign up." %}


## Reporting Bugs

Bugs can be reported via the list above (bugs or security problems), or via the issue tracker (bugs only):

If you believe the behavior is the result of a bug and know what part
of perfSONAR is the cause, please open an issue in the appropriate
[repository on GitHub](https://github.com/perfsonar).  Otherwise, [
open one in the GitHub project
repository](https://github.com/perfsonar/project/issues/new) and it
will be looked at and relocated to the right place.


## Reporting Security Problems

If you encounter a vulnerability in perfSONAR, please report it to the
development team at
[perfsonar-developer@internet2.edu](mailto:perfsonar-developer@internet2.edu).


## Training

The perfSONAR project makes training materials available to the
general public.  Questions regarding the use of these materials or
information on upcoming events can be directed to
[perfsonar-training@internet2.edu](mailto:perfsonar-training@internet2.edu).


## Project Management

The perfSONAR collaboration is developing a set of open-source
software services that implement the perfSONAR protocols for network
performance monitoring. Please contact
[perfsonar-lead@internet2.edu](mailto:perfsonar-lead@internet2.edu) to
speak with project leaders for this effort.
