---
title: Licenses
keywords: license
toc: false
permalink: about_license.html
folder: about
sidebar: home_sidebar
---

## perfSONAR Software

perfSONAR components and tools are licensed under the [Apache License,
Version 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0); you may not
use this software except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at
[http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
implied. See the License for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under the License.


## Other Software

The perfSONAR toolkit installs a large number of non-perfSONAR,
open-source components.  These components use varying licenses; check
with the licence file for each of these products for more information.


## Training and Other Written or Graphic Materials

The perfSONAR project encourages community use of all materials for
training and education.  All training products and other written or
graphic materials, including this web site, are licensed under the
[Createve Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0) (CC BY-SA
4.0) by the perfSONAR Project.

The full, legal text of the license may be found at
[https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode);
the material below is provided as a summary.

You are free to:

 * **Share** - Copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
 * **Adapt** - remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, even commercially.

The perfSONAR project cannot revoke these freedoms as long as you
abide by the license terms:

 * **Attribution** - You must give appropriate credit, provide a link
     to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so
     in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the
     perfSONAR project endorses you or your use.

 * **Share Alike** - If you remix, transform, or build upon the
     material, you must distribute your contributions under the same
     license as the original (CC BY-SA 4.0)

 * **No Additional Restrictions** - You may not apply legal terms or
     technological measures that legally restrict others from doing
     anything the license permits.

You do not have to comply with the license for elements of the
material in the public domain or where your use is permitted by an
applicable exception or limitation.

No warranties are given.  The license may not give you all of the
permissions necessary for your intended use.  For example, other
rights such as publicity, privacy, or moral rights may limit how you
use the material.
