---
title: "Why Use perfSONAR?"
keywords: about
#tags: []
sidebar: home_sidebar
permalink: gtk_why.html
toc: true
---

## On Your Network

Network users commonly must navigate a complicated maze of
connectivity, all hidden from their direct control, to accomplish work
on networks.  In many cases, the tasks of science are physically
separated.

{% include image.html file="gtk/why/maze.png" %}

Without visibility into what is happening on the network, fixing
problems can be a random walk.  To better regiment the process of
debugging and to ensure a higher level of success, perfSONAR gives
visibility to the nuances of each network.  perfSONAR works best when
there is coverage on all portions of a long path.

{% include image.html file="gtk/why/path.png" %}

When all portions of the path have instrumentation, it is easier to
debug, easier to operate, and easier for the base users of the
network.


## In Your Toolbox

Buzzwords and acronyms abound in technology.  This environment is
challenging when attempting to learn about a new product, especially
when there are doubts about the purpose, longevity, maturity,
security, and scalability of some piece of hardware or software.
To sum it up in a single sentence:

> _perfSONAR is a software product to monitor networks for performance
     discrepancies, on an end-to-end basis, ensuring friction-free use
     for scientific applications._

In more verbose terms, perfSONAR is designed to tell you how certain
use cases on the network (e.g. bulk data transfer, video and audio
streaming) will perform between your site, and those of collaborators,
aggregation networks, backbone networks, exchange points, or content
providers.

This task is performed by installing a selection of monitoring tools
to a local server that you have complete control over, performing
basic configuration, and then picking the endpoints that others have
already deployed to be used in test cases.  In doing so each site
gains a deeper understanding of the performance they can expect to
reach others around the world, and in turn can then translate these
measurements into an expectation for other activities such as data
mobility.  The resulting monitoring data can be integrated into
visualizations, create alarms, or serve as a basis for providing
network status to intelligent applications that use SDN.

Each day, perfSONAR is used at hudreds of institutions on thousands of
systems and networks making millions of measurements.  It is
recommended by funding bodies and virtual organizations (VOs) as a
federated and scalable solution to determining network performance.
There are many things that network engineers and users cannot _see_
due to the nature of network design and protocols.  For instance,
applications that are based on TCP will function even if there are
problems in the underlying technology that are causing data loss or
transmission errors.  perfSONAR exposes the underlying behavior of the
network by providing verifiable evidence of common network problems,
and is able to help isolate and aide in the correction.

perfSONAR is a mature development effort borne of the Research and
Education networking community that is only successful because of the
interest an effort invested by the core partners and key stakeholders.
Feedback is always valuable in determining what is and is not needed
to address the challenges of scientific networking support.


## At Your Institution

perfSONAR is widely-used in research and education and has been a
vital part of several research solicitations including the NSF's
[CC-DNI](https://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2015/nsf15534/nsf15534.htm) and
[IRNC](https://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=503382&amp;org=ACI).
