---
title: Framework for perfSONAR Contributions from Research Groups
keywords: info
toc: true
permalink: collab_framework.html
folder: about
sidebar: home_sidebar
comments: false
---

## Executive Summary

This overview is intended for network research teams interested in
developing new perfSONAR components in collaboration with ESnet,
GÉANT, the Indiana University Global Research NOC, and Internet2. Each
of these organizations is interested in encouraging such
contributions. To that end, we describe several models for
collaboration that appear to be viable. However, this document should
be considered a starting point for discussion with research teams, not
an expression of fixed policy.


## Background on perfSONAR Collaboration

perfSONAR is a global, open source collaboration that aims to advance
the state of the art in performance monitoring infrastructure,
accelerate data-intensive science, and promote operational excellence
in advanced networking. It serves both as a production-quality toolkit
that can be readily deployed to support operating networks, and as a
community project for coalescing new ideas, architectures, and
technologies in the area of network performance.

ESnet, GÉANT, the Indiana University Global Research NOC, and
Internet2 have agreed to undertake a perfSONAR collaboration by taking
the following steps together:

 * Allocating 1.5 full-time employees each to perfSONAR related
   effort, including at least one full-time employee in development
   effort

 * Joining with other organizations who are making comparable
   commitments, to coordinate development goals

 * Partnering with the larger perfSONAR community (including end
   users, networkers, developers, and researchers) to create a
   ‘requirements review’ process for defining high-level outcomes
   desired, and development goals to support those outcomes

 * Meeting regularly to monitor progress towards development goals and
   high- level outcomes


## Three Collaboration Models

Contributions to the production code-base of perfSONAR, and new and
innovative research ideas that could eventually become part of that
production code-base, are needed and welcome. We expect that the
process for incorporating contributions in the second category will
follow one of three models, depending on the project. We strongly
encourage research projects to make contact before starting work, in
order to discuss which model works best for their purposes.

 * **Model 1:** The research project is fully responsible for
   long-term support of the new component. For this option, the
   research project will likely have a long-term funding history, with
   common open-source project components such as a public code
   repository, bug tracker, wiki, and support email list.

 * **Model 2:** The research project completes a ‘proof of concept’
   implementation, with the agreement that if the component appears
   useful to the broader community, the core perfSONAR team may choose
   to re-implement and support it on an ongoing basis as part of the
   funded perfSONAR development effort. For this option, the research
   project will need meet with a group of developers and walk through
   the code, explaining the techniques and algorithms used.

 * **Model 3:** - The research project components will be fully
   supported by the core perfSONAR collaboration, assuming resources
   for this support are available and the new components are valuable
   to the broader community. All code submitted by the research
   project would undergo a code review to ensure that the code is
   understood, maintainable, and supportable.


When a research project is prepared to begin work on a given
enhancement or new component, it would be desirable for the planned work
to be described and presented during a weekly project meeting. This
presentation does not need to be formal. Elements might include:

 * Explanation of which components are to be modified, or how new
    components will interact with existing APIs and interfaces

 * Presentation of development timeline

 * Description of proposed language and other technical details

 * Description of planned work


Regardless of the collaboration model, prospective contributors are
encouraged to join weekly project calls and relevant project mailing
lists, and to review existing documentation. These steps will allow
contributors to integrate well into the culture of the project.
